---
title:  "Books I Read in 2020"
date:   2020-12-31 01:24:38 +0300
categories: personal
---

Halfway through the year, I've decided to start writing a tiny summary about the books I read, as a personal reference mostly, but also to quickly summarize the gist in case anyone else was interested in exploring new books.

- Dark Psychology Secrets by Daniel James Hollins

## Dark Psychology Secrets by Daniel James Hollins

What I found interesting was the manipulation techniques compiled by MIT linguist Noam Chomsky. Distractions to divert attention from important changes done by political elites, introducing changes slowly to prevent rebellion, replacing reflection with emotion in speeches to prevent critical thinking, etc. These are things I very much relate to by watching the militias and terrorist rulers in Lebanon. The same concepts also appear in 'On Tyranny: Twenty Lessons from the Twentieth Century', chapter 17, talks about controlling a people by creating an 'exceptional state' which calls for 'exceptional measures', and keeping the people in that exceptional state forever. I've seen it with my people, my friends, my parents, a constant state of fear which forces them to accept their coexistence with a politically ruling terrorist group. 

The book also talks about the different types of hypnosis and what hypnosis is from the perspective of an audience or patient of hypnotherapy, which is an interesting perspective that gave me a deeper understanding of hypnosis. I've tried self-hypnosis in the past and as a child, but I never understood the foundation of it which is well described here.

Not a great book, but has some interesting things to be learned.